so Apple launched the new M4 MacBook
Pros this is their 14-in model and it's
equipped with the M4 Max their topend
configuration and it also has their new
Nano texture on their screen it's a
texture that's designed to cut down
Reflections it's the first time they've
actually had it on one of their laptops
uh but I want to do a quick video here
that kind of goes over the important
things I think you should be aware of
when it comes to this device and the
first thing I want to talk about is
performance the CPU gains are quite good
year on-ear but it's particularly
impressive that the M4 Max can
outperform the M2 Ultra in a lot of
benchmarks and workflows in terms of
Graphics the GPU gains on the M4 Pro are
decent but the GPU games on the M4 Max
are very impressive most GPU bound apps
and games will get a nice bump up from
this plus the rate tracing capabilities
are better so apps and games can take
advantage of that the thing I'm most
impressed by though is how good the M4
Max GPU is compared to the previous
generation especially at a very similar
thermal envelope like if you think about
the competitors in this space like AMD
Nvidia when they come out with laptop
gpus typically the new models come also
come with like an increase in power
requirement right it's just like you
know 5 or 10 watts per year but it adds
up over the course of time and on this
device if you think about the M1 Max to
the M4 Max the GPU has improved so much
with very little increase in power
consumption The Thermals on this device
are pretty much the same as last year's
models in terms of memory the base
configuration start at 16 GB now
thankfully and they've also increased
the memory bandwidth it's noticeable
already on the base models but the pro
and Max chips get a significant boost in
memory speed so for applications that
lean on Fast memory you definitely
notice a bump up this year if I'm being
honest though it's difficult for me to
tell how much of the gains that we're
seeing this year come from the memory
speed increase versus the CPU or the GPU
increase like they're all tied together
and I don't have the tools to lock
memory speed on a Macbook so it's tough
to tell I will say though that if you
have an older M1 or M2 or M3 MacBook Pro
I wouldn't upgrade because Apple's
silicon performance progresses so fast
year on-ear that it can pay off to just
wait as long as you can before you buy
new hardware okay let's talk about the
screens so this particular device is
running their new Nano texture finish
and it's finish we've seen on other
devices before right like their screens
uh the new iPads and every time I've
ever talked about that texture in a
video like a review video I've been like
it's nice but it's not all that special
at least not to me but check this out so
on the laptop the one on the left that
is the Nano texture this is a regular uh
like the glossy finish and I have an
overhead light do you see the difference
in the reflection it's not just like a
diffusion it's a pretty distinct
reduction in just light emittance and I
think okay when it came to the regular
screens and the iPad I even said this in
my review of that like it's a nice it's
a nice feature for some people but for
me I would never get it but for whatever
reason on the laptop I looked at this
I'm like this is awesome I totally would
get this if I was buying this year's
device and I think it's because on a
laptop your face tends to be a little
bit closer to the screen because we're
just like you know that's how we use a
laptops versus a desktop you tend to be
a little bit further away from the
screen and because it's a little bit
closer I just find that the reflections
that are being muted by this finish are
like it just seems to have more impact
there's just more value to that feature
So it's 15 option and it's also not like
a coating or some kind of layer that
they put on top it's part of the glass
it's like a a treatment for the glass
they etch it with some kind of acid and
it just does this to the glass and
supposedly it doesn't affect the
durability or like fragility of it but
we'll have to see the other new feature
for the screens this year is that they
now get brighter these now are able to
hit a thousand nits at the top end but
in order to get it you have to be in a
really bright environment for that
detector to be like okay you need that
extra brightness it's a nice feature ad
but I wouldn't be buying a new device
just for that brighter screen and also
there's apps like better display that
crank up the brightness of your screen
like beyond the stock levels if that's
something that you really need uh okay
ports so the number of USBC ports has
increased on the baseall from two to
three so last year's M3 MacBook Pro at
the base only had these two USBC ports
on the left and then on the right there
was no third USBC Port but now all of
the MacBook Pros the M4 devices all have
three USBC ports now now on the base M4
it is still just Thunderbolt 4 and then
on the M4 Pro and M4 Max chips they're
Thunderbolt 5 now I've said this some
previous videos but Thunderbolt 5 is not
particularly useful for most people in
terms of like having faster storage
because Thunderbolt 3 and4 are plenty
fast for that but Thunderbolt 5 enables
higher resolution displays because of
that extra bandwidth if that's important
to you the battery life is supposed to
be longer lasting this generation the
battery size stays the same but for my
testing I didn't see too much of a gain
with heavy workflows on the 14-in model
but for lighter tasks it was definitely
a little bit longer lasting the webcam
has improved over the previous
generation the M4 MacBook Pros are now
running a 12 megapixel sensor and this
because of the higher resolution enables
Center Stage so as you move around it'll
kind of track your face and do the stuff
we've seen on like iPads and iMacs it's
a neat feature and I do think that the
image quality is better but it's very
slight like this is still a very thin
panel on the screen so you can't put
like huge sens or huge Optics in that uh
webcam area Okay uh the other thing
that's changed for this year is they've
gotten rid of the space gray coloration
which is I think a huge shame this is
the space black it's not like a new
color but they don't have space gray
anymore it's the only dark colored
MacBook Pro they have uh but otherwise
it's a nice bump I think the performance
this year is much more impressive than I
thought it would be particularly on the
GPU component uh but yeah there you have
it that's the new M4 Max MacBook Pros